README.md, before:

# Discord-Bot-Tutorial
A short tutorial on how to start building Discord Bots that perform simple tasks.

## Materials
To make a Discord bot you will need to have somewhere to create it and Python itself. I also have shared some extensions I used to make things easier. The provided list is what I'm using, but it is possible to use other options.
* [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* The Python language support extension in VSCode (Extension ID: ms-python.python)
* The discord.py package
* [Python version 3.13.0](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/)
* A [Discord account](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fdevelopers%2Fapplications%2F)

## Instructions
### 1. Download [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* Go to their website [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and download the correct version for your system.
* Follow the installation steps in the installation wizard.
### 2. Download [Python version 3.13.0](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/)
* Go the the [download page](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/) and download the correct version for your system
* ![Downloads area for different systems](Python-Download-Screen-Cropped.png)
### 3. Add the recommended extensions for VSCode by searching the Extension ID in the Extensions tab (ctrl+shift+x) and install the discord.py library
* Install the Python language support extension (Extension ID: ms-python.python)
* Install the discord.py library using the following command in the terminal "py -3 -m pip install -U discord.py"
### 4. Make a Discord account if you don't have one
* [This link should take you to a login page where you can login or make a new account](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fdevelopers%2Fapplications%2F)
### 5. Make a new application in the Discord developer portal
* Click the "New Application" button. ![New Application button red rectangle](Discord-developer-portal-New-Application.png)
* In the popup type a name for your Discord bot and agree to the Developer TOS and the Developer policy. ![Naming your new application](New-Application-Naming.png)
### 6. Create a test Discord server for you to test your bot in.
* Either in the Discord application or on the Discord website click the add a server button. ![Add a server button](Discord-Server-Creation-Red-Square.png)
* Click the "Create My Own" button. ![Create my own button](Add-A-Server.png)
* Click the "For me and my freinds button".
* Name your server and click create. ![name your server](Name_The_Server.png)
### 7. Invite the bot to the test server you just made.
* Go to the OAuth2 tab in your Discord developer portal page for your bot.
* Check the bot box under scopes for bot. ![bot scope](Scope-discord.png)
* Check the bot permissions shown in the picture below. ![bot permissions](Bot-permissions.png)
* Copy the generated URL. ![the generated URL](copy-URL.png)
* Copy your new URL into your browser.
* Invite the bot to your test server. ![invite page](Invite-to-server.png)
* Approve the permissions for the bot. ![approve the permissions](Approve-the-bots-permission.png)
### 8. Create the .py file to start proramming your bot in.
* Open VScode and click "New file..." ![New file button VSCode](New-File-VSCode.png)
* Name the file "{BotName}.py" with whatever name you want.
* You can put the file in whatever folder you want, but I suggest making a new one for your bot.
### 9. Begin by importing your packages, adding special commands, and stubbing out methods.
* Start by importing the required packages like so: 
```python
import discord
import time
import random
```

* Set a prefix character of your choice. I will use '!' 
```python
prefix = '1'
```
* Finally declare your class and stub out your messages: 
```python
class MyClient(discord.Client):

	@tasks.loop()
	async def on_interval():


	async def on_ready(self):


	async def on_message(self, message):
```
### 10. Start writing the on_ready method.
* Inside the on_ready method you will write a startup message. This can be customized however you want but mine looks like the following:
```python
async def on_ready(self):
	print(self.user + " is ready...")
```
### 11. Set up your variables, make sure the bot didn't send the message, and implement the hello command.
* The first steps are to store the message content in an easily accessible variable, store the channel the message was sent in as a easily accessible variable and make sure we did not send the message (this last part is just a safety mechanism and isn't techinically needed since the bot will never send any of its own commands).
```python
message_content = message.content.lower()
channel = message.channel
if message.author == self.user:
	return
```
* Now write the introduction command. This one I do not add the prefix to as a preference.
```python
if 'hello tutorial bot' in message_content:
	await message.send("Hello {}".format(message.author.name))
```
### 12.

Commit message:

instructions are done up to step 13. next step is to show how to do the looped message.

README.md, after:

# Discord-Bot-Tutorial
A short tutorial on how to start building Discord Bots that perform simple tasks.

## Materials
To make a Discord bot you will need to have somewhere to create it and Python itself. I also have shared some extensions I used to make things easier. The provided list is what I'm using, but it is possible to use other options.
* [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* The Python language support extension in VSCode (Extension ID: ms-python.python)
* The discord.py package
* [Python version 3.13.0](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/)
* A [Discord account](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fdevelopers%2Fapplications%2F)

## Instructions
### 1. Download [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* Go to their website [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and download the correct version for your system.
* Follow the installation steps in the installation wizard.
### 2. Download [Python version 3.13.0](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/)
* Go the the [download page](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3130/) and download the correct version for your system
* ![Downloads area for different systems](Python-Download-Screen-Cropped.png)
### 3. Add the recommended extensions for VSCode by searching the Extension ID in the Extensions tab (ctrl+shift+x) and install the discord.py library
* Install the Python language support extension (Extension ID: ms-python.python)
* Install the discord.py library using the following command in the terminal "py -3 -m pip install -U discord.py"
### 4. Make a Discord account if you don't have one
* [This link should take you to a login page where you can login or make a new account](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fdevelopers%2Fapplications%2F)
### 5. Make a new application in the Discord developer portal
* Click the "New Application" button. ![New Application button red rectangle](Discord-developer-portal-New-Application.png)
* In the popup type a name for your Discord bot and agree to the Developer TOS and the Developer policy. ![Naming your new application](New-Application-Naming.png)
### 6. Create a test Discord server for you to test your bot in.
* Either in the Discord application or on the Discord website click the add a server button. ![Add a server button](Discord-Server-Creation-Red-Square.png)
* Click the "Create My Own" button. ![Create my own button](Add-A-Server.png)
* Click the "For me and my freinds button".
* Name your server and click create. ![name your server](Name_The_Server.png)
### 7. Invite the bot to the test server you just made.
* Go to the OAuth2 tab in your Discord developer portal page for your bot.
* Check the bot box under scopes for bot. ![bot scope](Scope-discord.png)
* Check the bot permissions shown in the picture below. ![bot permissions](Bot-permissions.png)
* Copy the generated URL. ![the generated URL](copy-URL.png)
* Copy your new URL into your browser.
* Invite the bot to your test server. ![invite page](Invite-to-server.png)
* Approve the permissions for the bot. ![approve the permissions](Approve-the-bots-permission.png)
### 8. Create the .py file to start proramming your bot in.
* Open VScode and click "New file..." ![New file button VSCode](New-File-VSCode.png)
* Name the file "{BotName}.py" with whatever name you want.
* You can put the file in whatever folder you want, but I suggest making a new one for your bot.
### 9. Begin by importing your packages, adding special commands, and stubbing out methods.
* Start by importing the required packages like so: 
```python
import discord
import time
import random
```

* Set a prefix character of your choice. I will use '!' 
```python
prefix = '1'
```
* Finally declare your class and stub out your messages: 
```python
class MyClient(discord.Client):

	@tasks.loop()
	async def on_interval():


	async def on_ready(self):


	async def on_message(self, message):
```
### 10. Start writing the on_ready method.
* Inside the on_ready method you will write a startup message. This can be customized however you want but mine looks like the following:
```python
async def on_ready(self):
	print(self.user + " is ready...")
```
### 11. Set up your variables, make sure the bot didn't send the message, and implement the hello command.
* The first steps are to store the message content in an easily accessible variable, store the channel the message was sent in as a easily accessible variable and make sure we did not send the message (this last part is just a safety mechanism and isn't techinically needed since the bot will never send any of its own commands).
```python
message_content = message.content.lower()
channel = message.channel
if message.author == self.user:
	return
```
* Now write the introduction command. This one I do not add the prefix to as a preference.
```python
if 'hello tutorial bot' in message_content:
	await message.send("Hello {}".format(message.author.name))
```
### 12. Collect some images from the internet and make a command to send them.
* Collect the images from the internet that you want to be able to send. I chose different colors as an example.
* Take the links and put them in an array **outside** of the class.
```python
links = [{link1}, {link2}, {link3}]
```
* Write the if statement to check for the command and send a random one of your links.
```python
if (prefix + 'links') in message_content:
	await message.send(random.choice(links))
```
### 13. Collect some gifs you like and make a command to send them.
* Collect some gifs. These should be from tenor (the built in gif renderer) in order to make this step easier.
* Put the links to the gifs in an array **outside** of the class.
```python
gifs = [{gif1}, {gif2}, {gif3}]
```
* Write the if statement to check for the command and send a random on of your gifs
```python
if(prefix + 'gifs') in message_content:
	await message.send(random.choice(links))
```
### 14.
